NIP-5B - Embeddable Nostr Web Apps (#2282)
nostr-protocol/nips: 5B.md

NIP-5B
======

napps
-----

`draft` `optional`

This NIP describes a method for advertising [NIP-5A](5A.md) static websites as  **napps**.

> A _napp_ is a purely client-side app made of web assets (HTML, CSS, JS) that can be loaded dynamically from inside other higher-order apps. Those higher-other apps will ensure the _napp_ has access to [NIP-07](07.md) `window.nostr` APIs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Embeddable Nostr Web Apps
-------------------------

`draft` `optional`

This NIP describes a method for advertising [NIP-5A](5A.md) static websites as embeddable web apps.

These are purely client-side app made of web assets (HTML, CSS, JS) that can be loaded dynamically from inside higher-order apps. Those higher-other apps will ensure the embedded app has access to [NIP-07](07.md) `window.nostr` APIs.
```

NIP-5B
======

> Nostr Apps
> ----------
> 
> `draft` `optional`
> 
> This NIP describes a method for advertising [NIP-5A](5A.md)
> static websites that are Nostr Apps.
> 
> ### What is a Nostr App?
> 
> If the [NIP-5A](5A.md) static website supports [NIP-07](07.md), it is considered a Nostr web app.
> 
> When that is the case, the author should publish an `App Listing` event with
> the same `d` tag as the website manifest.
> 
> The [NIP-5A](5A.md) website manifest
> event's `created_at` field value is considered the app version.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
napps
-----

`draft` `optional`

This NIP describes a method for advertising [NIP-5A](5A.md) static websites as  **napps**.

A _napp_ is a purely client-side app made of web assets (HTML, CSS, JS) that can be loaded dynamically from inside other higher-order apps. Those higher-other apps will ensure the _napp_ has access to [NIP-07](07.md) `window.nostr` APIs.
```

Clients SHOULD validate category labels against this table and ignore unrecognized values.

Additional custom categorization may be achieved with `t` tags (hashtags).

### App Identifier

The identifier for a website is a [NIP-19](19.md) entity with some changes.

The entity encodes the site manifest's `d` tag, optional relay hints, and the author's pubkey using a TLV (Type-Length-Value) binary format encoded in base-62 (`[A-Za-z0-9]`) to make it shorter than bech32.

To keep it even shorter than regular NIP-19 entities, we use `+` as the prefix.

Example: `+cA99KnC0UCyqHT5oI8fIkoza0jfB1lrvaWKmuh6h2EhTz2nw4R2a5qVNM`

The TLV payload contains:

| Type | Content                          | Encoding     |
|------|----------------------------------|--------------|
| 0    | `d` tag value                    | UTF-8        |
| 1    | Relay URL (optional, may repeat) | UTF-8        |
| 2    | Author pubkey                    | 32 raw bytes |

Each TLV entry is encoded as: `[type: 1 byte] [length: 1 byte] [value: length bytes]`.
The resulting binary is encoded in base-62 and prefixed with `+`.

> See [reference Javascript implementation](https://github.com/44Billion/nappup/blob/main/src/helpers/nip19.js).

Reviewer: Is it possible to not be subject to a pubkey? For example, if I want to use Coracle and not be rugpulled when hodlbod decides to turn Coracle into a Mossad app, how can I ensure I keep using the same version I've always used and only update when I want?

Author: The pubkey/relayhints are there to find the nip5a site manifest event.

You could fork the nip5a site manifest under your pubkey and re-upload the files to your blossoms and then install that version. I think I could manage to make it a feature triggered by a simple button click. Or do you have another flow in mind?

Currently on 44 platform, the manifest and files are cached locally. Didn't add napp auto-update feature yet for those who want it. Currently user sees an update notification and has to click manually to update a specific app.

Reviewer: Why should I have to fork and publish under my name if each app is already uniquely identified by a hash?

Maybe we should just have another naming convention for apps identified by id + relay hint instead of pubkey.

Reviewer: But this could probably be added later.

NIP-5B
======

Nostr Apps
----------

`draft` `optional`

This NIP describes a method for advertising [NIP-5A](5A.md)
static websites that are Nostr Apps.

### What is a Nostr App?

> If the [NIP-5A](5A.md) static website supports [NIP-07](07.md), it is considered a Nostr web app.

Reviewer 2: This is fundamentally wrong. There is no way to enforce this behavior, and it's not even remotely accurate. As demonstrated previously, there are many reasons why an nsite would have an NIP-07 and not want to be a napp. The critiques remain unanswered. This proposition breaks the core tenants of possibilities being voluntary.
